Practitioners, if we have the capabilities, courage, commitment, joy of effort, and devotions,
we can get enlightenment, a core teaching within these lifetimes, which is not eons or eons.
Anyhow, it gets within these lifetimes, highly capabilities, practitioners.
And there are many, many individuals who become enlightened within that lifetime, such as,
very renowned, such as, J.T. Segevamsa.
He reached enlightenment in 12 years.
The long chamber also reached enlightenment within his lifetimes, long chambers.
And then all the 25 disciples, such as, Yixin Surya, reached enlightenment within his lifetimes.
Those are the examatory that you can reach enlightenment.
If you have the high cover, you have the courage, commitment, joy of effort, follow the teaching,
instruction, and apply the teaching, you can get enlightenment within this lifetime.
Then also, when you apply the teaching, very un-teaching, immediately we visualize ourselves as
Buddha,
not just reading Buddha for a long time.
Instantly we visualize ourselves as Buddhas, such as, Buddha Shatyamuni, Gurbama Sambhava,
or Veda Kalya, or Veda Varahe, or Veda Yokini.
And we instantly visualize ourselves, and activate that.
Reason why, because, again, same thing, same reason, Buddha and we all have the same nature.
In the natural level, the nature of the mind, or our basic, grown nature level, we are equal.
There is no difference between Buddha and ourself, according to the teaching.
We are all the same.
Therefore, we activate our basic qualities, basic nature, instantly.
Instantly, read again how we need, with courage, confidence, and then with meditation.
We activate that, such as visualization meditation.
We activate that, and be in that state.
So, you can get enlightenment within this lifetime.
Or if you didn't get enlightenment within this lifetime, and the teaching says, you can get
enlightenment
at the moment of death, or when we leave this bowl.
Or if you saw that didn't happen, and you can get enlightenment in the part of those states.
Or in the teaching says, those highly culpability practices, I mean those who really need
enlightenment,
they are highly culpability person, but yet they didn't get enlightenment within this lifetime.
At the moment of death, they can get enlightenment in the Dharmakaya states, Dharmakaya states.
Somehow, we miss that opportunity, we miss that opportunity.
We can get those individually, minimum culpability, they can get enlightenment in the part of those
states,
in the Sambukaya states, Sambukaya states.
And somehow, in the part of the state, also you really get immediately enlightenment
at the end of the, before you rebirth, the next rebirth, those kind of lower culpability practices,
they can reach enlightenment to the Dharmakaya states.
So therefore, again, within this lifetime, or the next, soon next lifetime,
you have high opportunity to get enlightenment.
For those reasons, it's known as the resolve beyond us.
Immediately activating, capturing, discovering the resolve.
That is what is called the resolve beyond us.
So, among that, among the resolve beyond us, Jyotin is the highest teaching.
Until Jyotin, according to the teaching, or until the Jyotin teaching,
all the teachings are basically helping to the, by helping the, by conception to the conceptions.
By conception to the conceptions, all that.
But Jyotin is beyond the conceptions.
Again, what that means, helping by, of taking care of the, by the conception to the conceptions.
For such as, the notion of the permanent is taking care of the total, total of the in permanent.
Thought, permanent thought is thought.
In permanent thought is also thought.
So thought is taking care of thoughts.
And those people who had also long understanding of the cause and effectors,
and check that is also conservative.
But then, to check care of that, taking care of teachings on the garments. Cause and effectors.
And the notion of, for example, ego clinging.
That is taken care of by the thought of the non-ego clinging, or no ego clinging.
Clinging, ego clinging is thought. No ego clinging is thought.
But what is more close to the truth?
All that in permanent is close to the truth as it is.
The understanding of the karma is close to the, but not, not believing on the karma, cause and
conditions.
And also understanding of the no ego clinging is very true than the clinging on the ego clinging.
It often goes on and on, everything, until the doctor teaching, in the teaching method,
or the great masters always method, is helping by the conceptual concept.
But which is also good, according, again, in the school of middle teaching, what is it called?
The iron is cut by irons.
Orson is cured by the Orson's. It's called, but normally in the Western, homopedics.
Homopedic techniques, which is important, which is very wonderful, good.
But however, when you're looking from the looking point, its conception is taking care of the
conceptions.
But zokin is beyond the conceptions.
Immediately we are connected to the origin and nature as it is, beyond the conceptions.
So therefore, what always in the doctor teaching or the great doctor master said,
zokin is the practice or teaching of the beyond the conception of, zokin is the teaching of the
primordial states,
clear like the minister states. Therefore, zokin is very fast.
Zokin is about, there is nothing higher, no higher than zokin teaching at all in Buddhism.
There is no higher zokin, more profound, more direct to discover our enlightenment.
All Buddha teaching is design and teaching on how to discover our inner nature or become Buddha
Buddha.
Buddha, that's the goal.
And zokin is the most powerful, direct teaching to discover this teaching.
So that's why a little bit is called, simlinde bhiji.
Zokin is a wisdom which is beyond conception or beyond thought.
That is immediately engaged there.
So that way, therefore, zokin is highest in tantras.
In a tantra level, when a tantra is divided, six different tantras or four different tantras.
Four tantras, three outer tantra, kriya tantra, popa tantra, yoga tantras.
Those are the four tantras.
Fourth one is known as supreme yoga tantra.
Supreme yoga tantra, that's the four divisions.
And this fourth supreme yoga tantra, then there is many terminologies or two leading terminologies,
which is known as sometimes named as supreme yoga tantra, divided into three.
And those are known as two terminologies, pada tantra, mada tantra, and neutral tantras.
In the Dokji teaching, there are numerous schools which are based in Buddhism, always named Mahay
oga Tantra, Anuyoga Tantra, and Adiyoga Tantras.
Adiyoga Tantra is the similar equal willingness of the neutral tantras, in other words, neutral
tantras.
Neutral tantra is the most powerful direct teaching as I mentioned, according to the teaching,
according to the greatest masters.
Therefore, Dokji is the highest teaching.
And as we are dividing in Dokji teaching, or not as we divide, and that is what Dokji teaching.
When you practice it, there is a tochoo and a toga practice, within two practices, tochoo practice,
toga practice.
Tochoo practice is the equal willingness of a visitor of Mahamudrati, very similar.
Mahamudrati, even though, again, there are slightly some distinctions in a great master's measure.
Because, again, Dokjin is directly going to the wisdom, promote your wisdom.
But Dokka teaching is the extraordinary teachings of the Dokjins.
There is nothing any other teaching mentioned clearly, so profoundly, so detailed, and so direct of
the toga teachings.
One is that, again, one is just those teachings.
I have a simple way to put tochoo practices of the emptiness aspect of the nature of the mind.
And Dokka teaching is a clarity aspect of the enlightened quality of the nature of the mind.
That explains.
And the Unite both together, then makes it so powerful to discover the ultimate quality of the
nature of the mind, as it has, as this mind has.
So that is generally kind of understanding of the Tao, the way they are teaching, or the Dokkati.
Now, today, we go on, again, this S Dokkins has already made Dokki.
Dokki, and now, once we have this,